So right now we've dealt mostly
with the props that we pass in,
which is great and wonderful,
but there is the use
case that we might want to
pass in some state as well,
or managed state in our application.
And first, we're gonna talk about
this in two different ways.
So, we're gonna talk about
state that we know about and
we're gonna talk about state
that we eventually get, right?
A great example of state we might
eventually get is state like,
okay, we're gonna fetch stuff from
an API when the component mounts,
we don't have that yet, right?
And a lot of times if we can use defaults,
it's something along those lines,
right like that works,
right when you say like, okay,
like we don't have the user's
first name from the API.
Yeah, but we might choose to
use empty string for now,
that's usually super helpful and
we'll see for reasons.
But there's some cases where we don't
actually necessarily know the shape of
everything as the component loads.
All right, so let's take a look at this.
Let's start up here.
We haven't actually implemented
the state part yet, but
we're gonna have a few questions and
we wanna do is be able to toggle them.
And so right now they are blurred and
eventually we want to take off
that class name in the event that
they hit toggle answer, right?
So our state in this case will be whether
or not the answer should be hidden, so
let's go ahead and
we will kinda define that.
Let me pull in, let's just say use state.
I was hoping for the auto import,
it's one of those things some
of the time works every time.
So when you start as react from react.
Okay, so now we've got,
let's say is hidden and toggle hidden.
And we're gonna say that by default,
it should start out as True in this case,
right?
So, first of all be hidden if
you make that shown as well.
One of things I wanna point out
is we didn't really have to use
any type definitions here, right?
I could do something like this and
we'll kind of explore this is
a generic which I'll explain a little
bit later in the course where we could
say that it should be a boiling, right?
Cuz we know that react use state takes
lots of different art and take basically
anything that's gonna be the default
value of whatever the state is.
And then toggle should then only be
able to switch it to something new.
Now in regular JavaScript you can
start with the state as a boolean and
switch it to a string and
then accidentally set it as undefined, or
something along those lines.
TypeScript is going to enforce that,
whatever it was when you first set
it should be what it is in the event
that you set it to something else.
So we can define it,
which point you can see that it knows
that is hidden should be a boolean.
And if you look closely at
the definition of toggle hidden, so
it's got some ceremony around,
it's got reactive dispatch, and
as dispatching and react set state action.
Cuz you can learn a little bit about
has might just be using a reducer under
the hood, right and
it's expecting that it gets a Boolean.
So not only is it a Boolean but like when
you go to set the state to something new
that can also only be a Boolean as well.
But what's kind of interesting
is I can get rid of that.
right?
And this is kind of one of the core
concepts that we are going to
explore a little bit in our time together.
Which is TypeScript is going to analyze
your code to try its hardest to figure
out what you meant without
you having to tell
it everything about everything
that you're doing, right?.
And so I think sometimes when there's
complaints of yeah, TypeScript,
but there's so
much extra ceremony that I have to go
through in order to get anything done.
And to be clear, that was definitely true
a while ago, but these days there's a lot
that it will do to try to figure
out the intention in your code and
get out of your way.
The times that we're gonna have to kind
of step in there and really kind of guide
TypeScript is when it doesn't have
enough information to figure that out.
But in this case, it does react use state,
you're passing in a Boolean
as the initial value.
So it's like is hidden is probably going
to be a Boolean and when you toggle it,
it's also probably going to get
toggled to another Boolean, right?
And we didn't have to actually
necessarily define the type or
say anything about it,
it can manage a lot of that stuff for us.
And again, if I change this
to something else real quick,
right, like we can see
if we hover over this.
Now assuming as a string and
you're gonna set it to another string,
but out of the box we don't
that's a terrible name.
So we're gonna say that it is true and
we'll be able to use it as such.
So here's what we're gonna say is,
we're only gonna give it the blurred class
in the event that it is hidden otherwise
we'll give it a visible class or
something.
So here we'll say,
If it's hidden give it
the blurred otherwise
give it visible, it's hidden.
Cool, all right nothing changes
cuz by default that's set to true.
The other one that we're gonna do is
give us a button to just toggle that.
On click,
just give it a little click handler.
And we'll say toggle hidden.
And yeah,
I'll totally give it the string false.
That doesn't work, but
like zero's fallacy actually work, right?
Cuz JavaScript this would
theoretically for reasons that I want
to talk about work but in TypeScript it's,
no, I understand the zero is fallacy.
Or no is false but like it literally
you said a Booleen, right?
So instead of an accidental value that
might work and then might have a bug like
six months later and then you get blamed
and you find out it was you, right.
In this case, we will see that like,
like typescript again like listen,
you taught us the intention this
code is to toggle to a Boolean,
I'm going to ask the you do that.
There are ways which
we'll se in a little bit,
to say listen this could be one thing or
the other thing.
Or this could be null or a value.
We'll see all of that but
out of the box you can, it's gonna
basically look at what it was and
try to ask you set it to the same thing.
So now Back in Black is the first song
in Iron Man Thor took a class and
speaking group and
the first stone that power first
infinity stone that that I was
got was the Power Stone, right?
I don't think any of those are spoilers,
so I think it's fine.
But we can go ahead and we can say that
a lot of there's not other nice question
prompts, which again, is not much more
than using prop types, which is again,
mostly trying to save you from yourself.
TypeScript is doing a lot of this for
us under the hood, and
there's not a lot that we need to
necessarily deal with out of the box.